[STAC-22711]: document basic user mode (#85)
rancher/stackstate-product-docs: docs/latest/modules/en/pages/suse-cloud-observability/user-management.adoc

= User Management
:description: SUSE Cloud Observability user management

Users of the SUSE Cloud Observability tenants (SUSE Cloud Observability instances) are managed with https://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak]. Each customer (tenant) has a dedicated Keycloak realm. A link to the Keycloak console is sent in the welcome message when a user is created.

SUSE Cloud Observability redirects users to Keycloak for authentication. Users are expected to be members of one or more Keycloak groups.

The predefined Keycloak groups:

* *realm-admin*: Members of this group can log in to the Keycloak realm console and perform user management operations.
* *stackstate-k8s-troubleshooter*: Users in this group are assigned the `stackstate-k8s-troubleshooter` Keycloak client role, which maps to the SUSE Cloud Observability role with the same name. The role grants regular SUSE Cloud Observability permissions.
* *stackstate-k8s-admin*: Users in this group are assigned the `stackstate-k8s-admin` Keycloak client role, which maps to the SUSE Cloud Observability role with the same name. The role grants privileged SUSE Cloud Observability permissions.

== User management URL

> When a new user is created, they receive a welcome message containing a link to the Keycloak user management page. This link is *exclusively for the tenant administrator*, who is the first user by default. The URL format is: `https://<keycloak FQDN>/realms/<your dedicated Keycloak realm>/account`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new user is created, they receive a welcome message containing a link to the Keycloak user management page. This link is *exclusively for the tenant administrator*, who is the first user by default. The URL format is: `https://<keycloak FQDN>/realms/<your_dedicated_Keycloak_realm>/account`.
```

== User management

* Log in to Keycloak Admin Console.

image::keycloak_admin_console.png[Keycloak Admin Console]

=== Manage users

* In the left-hand menu, select `Users` under the `Manage` section.

==== Adding a new user

To *add a new user* click the `Add user` button. Enter the necessary user information (Username, Email, First Name, Last Name).

> * leave `Required users actions` empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Leave the `Required users actions` field empty.
```

> * add the user to the required groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the user to the required groups.
```

* click `Save`. The welcome message with the sign-up link and the links to the SUSE Cloud Observability tenant, Keycloak Admin and Account consoles are emailed to the user.

> * *To activate the account, which includes email confirmation and the password reset, the user must follow the sign-up link.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. *To activate the account, which includes email confirmation and the password reset, the user must follow the sign-up link.*
```

Is this supposed to be an important NOTE? If so, it can be mentioned in a note macro:
NOTE: To activate the account, which includes email confirmation and the password reset, the user must follow the sign-up link.

image::keycloak_create_user.png[Keycloak Create User]

==== Updating user details

To *edit user details*, select the user by clicking on Username.

* Change the details as needed.
* Set one or more `Required user actions`, for example, to force users to update password or configure one time passwords.
* Press `Save` button when done.

image::keycloak_update_user.png[Keycloak Update User]

==== Deleting a user

To *delete one or more users*, select the required users and press `Delete user` button.

=== Group membership

* Log in to the Keycloak Admin Console.
* In the `Groups` section, search for the group you want to manage.
* Click on the group name to open group details and go to the `Members` tab.
* To add a new group member, press the `Add Member` button and select the required users.

> * To delete users from the group, select the users from the list, then from the menu that at the same line as the `Add member` button marked as "⋮", select `Leave group`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Delete users from a group

. Select the users from the list. 
. Click the "⋮" menu in the same line as the `Add member` button and click `Leave group`.
```

= User Management
:description: SUSE Cloud Observability user management

> Users of the SUSE Cloud Observability tenants (StackState instances) are managed with https://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak]. Each customer (tenant) has a dedicated Keycloak realm. A link to the Keycloak console is sent in the welcome message when a user is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users of the SUSE Cloud Observability tenants are managed with https://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak]. Each customer (tenant) has a dedicated Keycloak realm. A link to the Keycloak console is sent in the welcome message when a user is created.
```
